{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Shusen Wang\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi0 Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science, Stevens Institute of Technology\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx2880\cellx5760\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Phone:} (201)216-5485\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Email:} swang134@stevens.edu\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qr \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 {\b Homepage:} wangshusen.github.io\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Research\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Keywords\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 Machine learning (ML), randomized linear algebra, optimization, big data, distributed computing.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Summary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 I am most interested in statistical ML and computational methods for ML. I am developing practical, scalable, and sound algorithms for learning from big and complex data.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Work Experience\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 from 2018\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Tenure-track assistant professor}; Department of Computer Science, Stevens Institute of Technology (Hoboken, NJ, USA)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2016-2018\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Postdoctoral Scholar}; Department of Statistics, UC Berkeley (Berkeley, CA, USA)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Advisor: Michael W. Mahoney}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Research: randomized linear algebra and implementation}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2014-2015\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Research Intern}; Baidu Big Data Lab (Beijing, China)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Mentor: Tong Zhang}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Research: optimization algorithms}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2012\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Research Intern}; Google Research (Beijing, China)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Research: randomized algorithms}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2011-2012\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Intern}; Microsoft Research Asia (Beijing, China)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Mentors: Haixun Wang and Yangqiu Song}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Project: probabilistic knowledge base}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Education\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2011-2016\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Doctor of Engineering}; Zhejiang University (Hangzhou, China)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Major: Computer Science}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Advisor: Zhihua Zhang}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Thesis: Large-Scale Machine Learning: A Randomized Approach and Theoretical Analysis}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2007-2011\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\b Bachelor of Engineering}; Zhejiang University (Hangzhou, China)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi0 {\i Major: Computer Science}\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Academic Service\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Journal Reviewer}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Journal of Machine Learning Research 2015 to 2018\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing, 2017\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software, 2017\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Journal of Econometrics, 2017\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications, 2017\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Pattern Recognition Letters, 2018\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab International Journal of Data Science and Analytics, 2018\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 2018\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Conference Committee Member or Reviewer}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab NIPS 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab ICML 2017, 2018, 2019\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab IJCAI 2015, 2017, 2018\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab AAAI 2017, 2018\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab AISTATS 2019\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Major Honors & Awards\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2014\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Baidu Scholarship}, awarded to 8 Chinese students in the world, US$30,000\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2013\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Microsoft Research Asia Fellow}, awarded to 10 students in Asia Pacific, US$10,000\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2012\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b Scholarship Award for Excellent Doctoral Student Granted by Ministry of Education}, US$5,000\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2012-2014\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi0 {\b National Scholarship for Graduate Students}, 3 times, each time US$5,000\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Journal Papers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
A Bootstrap Method for Error Estimation in Randomized Matrix Multiplication.
}}}
 Miles E. Lopes, {\b Shusen Wang}, Michael W. Mahoney. Accepted by {\i Journal of Machine Learning Research}, 2019. Available at {\i arXiv:1708.01945}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wangshusen.github.io/papers/JMLR2019A.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Scalable Kernel K-Means Clustering with Nystrom Approximation: Relative-Error Bounds.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Alex Gittens, and Michael W. Mahoney. {\i Journal of Machine Learning Research} ({\b JMLR}), 20(12):1-49, 2019.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wangshusen.github.io/papers/JMLR2018.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Sketched Ridge Regression: Optimization Perspective, Statistical Perspective, and Model Averaging.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Alex Gittens, and Michael W. Mahoney. {\i Journal of Machine Learning Research} ({\b JMLR}), 18:1-50, 2018.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wangshusen.github.io/papers/GJI2018.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Efficient Data-Driven Geologic Feature Characterization from Pre-stack Seismic Measurements using Randomized Machine-Learning Algorithm.
}}}
 Youzuo Lin, {\b Shusen Wang}, Jayaraman Thiagarajan, George Guthrie, and David Coblentz. {\i Geophysical Journal International}, ggy385, 2018.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Alchemist: An Apache Spark <=> MPI Interface.
}}}
 Alex Gittens, Kai Rothauge, Michael W. Mahoney, {\b Shusen Wang}, Lisa Gerhardt, Prabhat, Jey Kottalam, Michael Ringenburg, and Kristyn Maschhoff. {\i Concurrency and Computation Practice and Experience} ({\b CCPE}), Special Issue on the Cray User Group, to appear, 2018.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wangshusen.github.io/papers/JMLR2016b.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Towards More Efficient SPSD Matrix Approximation and CUR Matrix Decomposition
}}}
. {\b Shusen Wang}, Zhihua Zhang, and Tong Zhang. {\i Journal of Machine Learning Research} ({\b JMLR}), 17(210):1-49, 2016.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wangshusen.github.io/papers/JMLR2016.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
SPSD Matrix Approximation vis Column Selection: Theories, Algorithms, and Extensions.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Luo Luo, and Zhihua Zhang. {\i Journal of Machine Learning Research} ({\b JMLR}), 17(49):1-49, 2016.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wangshusen.github.io/papers/JMLR2013.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Improving CUR Matrix Decomposition and the Nystrom Approximation via Adaptive Sampling.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang} and Zhihua Zhang. {\i Journal of Machine Learning Research} ({\b JMLR}), 14: 2729-2769, 2013.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wangshusen.github.io/papers/JMLR2012.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
EP-GIG Priors and Applications in Bayesian Sparse Learning.
}}}
 Zhihua Zhang, {\b Shusen Wang}, Dehua Liu, and Michael I. Jordan. {\i Journal of Machine Learning Research} ({\b JMLR}), 13: 2031-2061, 2012.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Preprints\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Improved Analyses of the Randomized Power Method and Block Lanczos Method.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Zhihua Zhang, and Tong Zhang. {\i arXiv:1508.06429}, 2015.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Conference Papers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Sharper Generalization Bound for the Divide-and-Conquer Ridge Regression.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}. In {\i AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence} ({\b AAAI}), 2019.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
GIANT: Globally Improved Approximate Newton Method for Distributed Optimization.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Farbod Roosta-Khorasani, Peng Xu, and Michael W. Mahoney. In {\i Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems} ({\b NIPS}), 2018.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arxiv.org/abs/1803.08021"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Error Estimation for Randomized Least-Squares Algorithms via the Bootstrap.
}}}
 Miles E. Lopes, {\b Shusen Wang}, and Michael W. Mahoney. In {\i International Conference on Machine Learning} ({\b ICML}), 2018.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Accelerating Large-Scale Data Analysis by Offloading to High-Performance Computing Libraries using Alchemist.
}}}
 Alex Gittens, Kai Rothauge, {\b Shusen Wang}, Michael W. Mahoney, Lisa Gerhardt, Prabhat, Jey Kottalam, Michael Ringenburg, and Kristyn Maschhoff. In {\i ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining} ({\b KDD}), 2018.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
OverSketch: Approximate Matrix Multiplication for the Cloud.
}}}
 Vipul Gupta, {\b Shusen Wang}, Thomas Courtade, and Kannan Ramchandran. In {\i IEEE International Conference on Big Data}, 2018.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://wangshusen.github.io/papers/ICML2017.pdf"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Sketched Ridge Regression: Optimization Perspective, Statistical Perspective, and Model Averaging.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Alex Gittens, and Michael W. Mahoney. In {\i International Conference on Machine Learning} ({\b ICML}), 2017.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Towards Real-Time Geologic Feature Detection from Seismic Measurements using a Randomized Machine-Learning Algorithm.
}}}
 Youzuo Lin, {\b Shusen Wang}, Jayaraman Thiagarajan, George Guthrie, and David Coblentz. In {\i Proceeding of Society of Exploration Geophysics} ({\b SEG}), 2017.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Open Domain Short Text Conceptualization: A Generative + Descriptive Modeling Approach.
}}}
 Yangqiu Song, {\b Shusen Wang}, and Haixun Wang. In {\i International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence} ({\b IJCAI}), 2015.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Improving the Modified Nystrom Method Using Spectral Shifting.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Chao Zhang, Hui Qian, and Zhihua Zhang. In {\i the 20th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining} ({\b KDD}), 2014.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Efficient Algorithms and Error Analysis for the Modified Nystrom Method.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang} and Zhihua Zhang. In {\i Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics, JMLR W&CP} ({\b AISTATS}), 2014.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Making Fisher Discriminant Analysis Scalable.
}}}
 Bojun Tu, Zhihua Zhang, {\b Shusen Wang}, and Hui Qian. In {\i the International Conference on Machine Learning} ({\b ICML}), 2014.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Exact Subspace Clustering in Linear Time.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Bojun Tu, Congfu Xu, and Zhihua Zhang. In {\i the 28th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence} ({\b AAAI}), 2014.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Using The Matrix Ridge Approximation to Speedup Determinantal Point Processes Sampling Algorithms.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Chao Zhang, Hui Qian, and Zhihua Zhang. In {\i the 28th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence} ({\b AAAI}), 2014.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Transfer Understanding from Head Queries to Tail Queries.
}}}
 Yangqiu Song, Haixun Wang, Weizhu Chen, and {\b Shusen Wang}. In {\i the 23rd ACM International Conference on Information and Knowledge Management} ({\b CIKM}), 2014.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Nonconvex Relaxation Approaches to Robust Matrix Recovery.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Dehua Liu, and Zhihua Zhang. In {\i International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence} ({\b IJCAI}), 2013.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
A Scalable CUR Matrix Decomposition Algorithm: Lower Time Complexity and Tighter Bound.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang} and Zhihua Zhang. In {\i Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems} ({\b NIPS}), 2012.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Colorization by Matrix Completion.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang} and Zhihua Zhang. In {\i the 26th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence} ({\b AAAI}), 2012.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK ""}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Efficient Subspace Segmentation via Quadratic Programming.
}}}
 {\b Shusen Wang}, Xiaotong Yuan, Tiansheng Yao, Shuicheng Yan, and Jialie Shen. In {\i the 25th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence} ({\b AAAI}), 2011.\sa180\par}
}
